# What is Open Interpreter?

### **Creator**

Open Interpreter is an open source project created by Killian Lucas who is _**building a universal interface between language models and computers.**_&#x20;

1. **Github:** [https://github.com/KillianLucas/open-interpreter](https://github.com/KillianLucas/open-interpreter)
2. **Twitter:** [https://twitter.com/hellokillian](https://twitter.com/hellokillian)

Get early access to the desktop app below.

{% embed url="https://openinterpreter.com/" %}

### What is it?

Open Interpreter uses the OpenAI API to run code (e.g. Python, Javascript, shell, etc) directly on your computer based on your prompts.

This basically unlocks a true personal AI butler (think JARVIS) for yourself because you are now able to control your computer by chatting with it using natural language.

**Some examples include:**

1. Write, test, and run code for you automatically
2. Access the internet via API calls and HTTP requests to complement (3)
3. Plot, clean, and analyse large datasets
4. Create and edit photos, videos, PDFs, etc

{% hint style="info" %}
Wait, doesn't Chatgpt premium already do this?&#x20;
{% endhint %}

**Wait, doesn't Chatgpt premium already do this?**&#x20;

1. Chatgpt-4 can definitely write code but it cannot test and run them automatically. i.e. it is not self-correcting. e.g.&#x20;
   * How many times have you tried to run the code generated by Chatgpt only to find that it returns an error at the very first step because some dependencies were not installed or the package version was wrong?
2. Not even Chatgpt-4 can access the internet to interact with real-time information. This makes the code building capabilities of Open Interpreter much more powerful by downloading and installing any missing packages you might need to run your code.
3. Chatgpt-4 has a [limited set of pre-installed packages](https://wfhbrian.com/mastering-chatgpts-code-interpreter-list-of-python-packages/).
4. Chatgpt has a 100 MB maximum upload, 120.0 second runtime limit
5. State is cleared (along with any generated files or links) when the environment dies.
6. _**Open Interpreter can also work offline if you have a GPU-enabled device so you can work with your data safely**_

Huge kudos to Killian Lucas for making Open Interpreter available to us plebs. Personally, I find it most useful for building my own projects (i.e. write, test, and run code) and I've been using it to build one of my side projects over the past 2 days.

### Caution

Allowing an almost sentient AI to run arbitrary code on your personal, or worse, work computer is a very dangerous activity, especially for those who are in Web3. Instead, you should isolate it to a virtual environment - e.g. google colab or a dedicated cloud virtual machine. I personally prefer the latter because I am paranoid.&#x20;
